Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. I was on the phone yesterday with Jake from zest prepping for when he comes. So we're excited. We have some new.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have some new content that we've prepared for you all for this program. We're excited.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm excited. Yeah, and all of you. In a couple of years you might be flown out to give workshops just like Jake. He was only in the program about 2 and a half years ago. So it's pretty fast
Lilliana Robinson: cool.
Lilliana Robinson: And during week 6 I'm going to go through Jake's example of why, before the why. So you'll actually see what he did for this one. I made our own example so as not to be too confusing, because we can walk through it. It's a little more rudimentary. So I have more examples for you as you get closer to the presentation. But today's just about learning.
Lilliana Robinson: That's why we do it so early. So let's jump right in.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: another word for, like the clustering exercise that you're going to learn today is synthesis. So jobs to be done, synthesis and all of that is just what happens after you do the interviews. So if you remember, Neil had, like 7 steps. It starts with having a learning objective. Then you make a screening criteria, and then you conduct the interviews.
Lilliana Robinson: or then you do the hunt, and you find your interviewees. Then you conduct the interviews. Then you gather the insights, and after each interview you're doing your forces, and you have your timeline. So now you have all your insights for your round, and the very last step is Job speed on synthesis, and after you've done all of that, you can go and take the insights, and, like, I said, make implications and start prototyping on your product. Change your product, change your marketing, start growing and really
Lilliana Robinson: using those insights to make progress in your business, which is the most fun part.
Lilliana Robinson: So what we're going to ask you to share for your why, before the why presentation, which is what
Lilliana Robinson: what we call what Jason freed, called the end of his jobs to be done round Neil is that who has credit for this title.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So so Jason wrote an article I think that we shared a few weeks ago with everyone called Why before the why and what was cool about is I didn't know he was writing it. All I know is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when we did our jobs to be done with him with Bob and Ryan singer, and we got these insights about Base camp and what the customers were coming for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like a few weeks later, this blog post emerges where Jason talks about all the jobs that we had found together, which I thought was really cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the the final part that was interesting to me at least, was that never use the phrase jobs to be done not a single time in the entire article, he just literally just said, Here's what we learned about our customers. So I thought that was a really clever and like smart way to like frame his understanding. And we've made that one of the foundations of how we help founders synthesize their insights. Now, ever since.
Lilliana Robinson: I don't know if we went through it. So I'm just gonna share. I think it would be a good exercise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Look at it. So
Lilliana Robinson: this is what Bob does at the end of every jobs to be done round. But Jason wrote this really great article, and we've used the title that he used, which is before. Why they buy. There's why they shop so before, why, the purchasing moment happens. It's why, they even start looking, which you guys know from the timeline and from reading the books. So they discovered from a massive jobs to be done round.
Lilliana Robinson: that there were 4 job statements for them. Most of you will gather anywhere from 2 to 4. It's pretty rare to just get one from the clustering you'd have to have like a very niche screening criteria where they all have the exact same problem so it could happen. But it's very rare. So you guys are going to have like 2 to 4, most people landing with 2 to 3 jobs statements after you do your clustering, which we're going to go into. But Base Camp ended with 4.
Lilliana Robinson: They just put the A statement like a quote from each cluster here instead of like a job statement. But just bear with me. Basically.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I definitely walked him through this part. I know that you all remember this like these these visuals. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is what Neil showed from the slides, but Jason put it into an article. So these 4 different clusters.
Lilliana Robinson: if you remember, from Neil's slides.
Lilliana Robinson: and from this not only did they share this publicly, for why people are joining base camp, they made product changes. They made marketing and pricing changes. And they use this to onboard, new people to their company. So it. This helps get everybody in line with what they're doing. Why, their customers are buying. They have every single customer or every single new employee come in and do customer success
Lilliana Robinson: before they go to whatever job that they were hired, for which I think is really cool, and part of that is, understanding the customer by reading what they learned in their why, before the why. So Jake from zest, did the exact same thing, made a Y before the why that was when it was still optional. So only 2 of the people from his cohort did it, and we still use his as an example today, and he still uses his to onboard new team members to get them all on the same page which is really cool.
Lilliana Robinson: And Jake went so far as to even make a why they quit. So he did a separate job. Speed on round about left. Yeah. So we'll ask him to speak on that, because it's really interesting. But now he has the same thing. But for why people leave zest, and so they just can comprehensively understand the customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Bob, Bob, Mesta and I are both on Jake's board, and we had a board meeting recently, where we had a pretty I wouldn't say contentious. But it was a really fascinating discussion about the why they quit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: conversation like basically figuring out churn. Because what we identified as a board was like that was the issue that the company needs to resolve for now is they have customers, but they have a leaky bucket, and why are they leaving?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it it like him doing the the firing, the jobs. Firing analysis gave us like a great conversation like piece to help him. Troubleshoot. What to do about churn.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sorry I didn't mean to jump in for Annie's question.
Annie Brown: Oh, no worries I guess my question was on the job statement. So the the statements that we're creating aren't like the ones in the in the blog post? Or are they like the ones in the blog post?
Lilliana Robinson: No, you're gonna do actual job statements. I'm going to show you. We'll walk through the whole thing. That was just an example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That being said like that. That is also okay. I want to. I want to be clear, like, we're going to give you a formula to to follow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you find yourself with more clarity, and you think you can craft the statement like what you see there. That's okay, too. But we just want to make sure that you've been thorough enough to to make that claim, because a lot of people will take the leap, and they'll see that article and go. Oh, I already know those, and then they'll just make up what they think they are for the people they've talked to off of their own, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, instincts and and beliefs, and sometimes they can get muddled.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: I'd rather you follow this like formula we're gonna go through and then extract quotes from your clusters and rename them. After doing the whole exercise to make sure that you truly understand each cluster than just like jumping straight to that. I'm sure that's what Jason did, too, because he was doing it with Bob. So he wasn't cutting corners, either.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool. So that was just to show you why we call it. Why, before the Y that's what you guys are going to do in week. 6. 0, wrong. One
Lilliana Robinson: back to the slides.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so what we're asking you guys to share are
Lilliana Robinson: one to 3. I I would even go as far to say 2 to 4 clusters. Each cluster is going to have a jobs to be done. Statement that represents that cluster.
Lilliana Robinson: So not only do you have a statement for each of your interviews that you guys are hypothesizing right now, based on your debriefs you're going to. I'll show you how. Come up with a job statement for each cluster. And then you're going to support each one by detailed evidence. So a lot of jobs to be done. And this whole Synthesis section is not guessing. It's very important that now this becomes almost like a research project where you have detailed evidence for every single
Lilliana Robinson: supposition you're making.
Lilliana Robinson: It's no longer just extracting data from what you hear and like. You kind of think these are the forces. This is much more. We have a job statement, and we know exactly why that job statement is true for that cluster.
Lilliana Robinson: So here's the evidence that I'm calling into question and asking you to provide the 4 forces.
Lilliana Robinson: This is like a coagulation of the 4 forces for all of the interviews that fall into that cluster. So it's like a summary.
Lilliana Robinson: the motivations also a summary, functional, social, emotional. And we'll review that today
Lilliana Robinson: competitors for this specific segment. This is really key. What is this group currently doing to solve this struggle? So each cluster usually will have a different thing that they're using? What are they switching from, or to depending on the nature of your job suite on round. What are the what's the competition? This is not the competition for your business. This is the competitors for this specific segment. So if you're interviewing people who hired
Lilliana Robinson: blank in the past 3 months, it doesn't have to be your product. It's whatever was in your screening criteria, whatever they hired in your screening criteria. What were they switching from?
Lilliana Robinson: And remember that non consumption is also an answer, and then quotes, very important to support every proposed jobs through down statement with actual quotes from interviews that support it. So pull out a few highlights, go back to your recordings. Make sure that you have real solid quotes from the customers.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so let's review, we're just going to start from the beginning.
Lilliana Robinson: A job statement is is in the following format, when
Lilliana Robinson: I I want to. So I can't.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is what we're talking about when we're saying one job statement per cluster. It should be in this form, and, like Neil said, you can extract and kind of abstract into other titles of the clusters once you already have this. But this is what you're going to present.
Lilliana Robinson: Remember, not to fall into the I want to have X product with X features. What do they actually want? Remember the motivation?
Lilliana Robinson: Then you're going to have the 4 forces. We're going to review these with the mattress interview in a second.
Lilliana Robinson: and then you're going to have the social, functional, and emotional. The whole purpose of demand side sales is to understand the forces and the energies here so that you can mitigate the negative energies or the negative forces, and then
Lilliana Robinson: magnify the positive ones, which will inherently push someone toward the purchasing moment. If you get rid of all their inhibitions.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's review with the mattress interview. I know it's been a couple of weeks, so I'll help you guys. But this is a good exercise to kind of like warm up our brains and remember what these things were.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: a push. I'm just going to go through each of them as a full review. So a push. If you see the arrow is pushing you toward a new behavior away from the status quo, a push is usually some sort of pain point. It's something that you need to solve a problem for urgently and it's something you can't ignore.
Lilliana Robinson: So does anyone remember a push
Lilliana Robinson: for our friend from the mattress. Interview is his name, Brian Neil. I believe it's Brian.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I don't know if I ever shared the lore there, but the the funny part is that I took Bob to a steak dinner last year, and I overrode his choice, and I took made him go to my favorite spot as opposed to his.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and at the steak dinner, lo and behold, he hadn't seen this guy for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: many, many years. The mattress Guy showed up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: happened to be there, and he joined us for dinner, and we had a great time talking about it. He had no idea that I've been using his interview for all of these trainings and everything. So it was so cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sorry for a little sidebar there, but that was fun.
Lilliana Robinson: That's cool.
Lilliana Robinson: So what was a push that Brian felt.
George Reed - Noetic: He'd spent 2 years being uncomfortable with his old mattress. Would that be.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, defined, uncomfortable. What was he feeling? Oh.
George Reed - Noetic: Sure it did add
George Reed - Noetic: joint pain, was it?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Back. Pain.
George Reed - Noetic: Yeah. Back. Pain.
Lilliana Robinson: Zack.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's a huge push. He was in physical pain.
Lilliana Robinson: We'll, we'll take that one that's really good. So yeah, he also hasn't been able to sleep for 2 years, so both things he's been having pain for 2 years. He hasn't been able to sleep well when he's not on the work trips for 2 years.
Lilliana Robinson: Pull. So let's go back to our chart. A pull is like a push where it's it's moving you toward the new behavior. But it's not an urgent pain, rather, it's an attraction. I call it an allure. I like that. They have the light bulb here, the new way, or the idea of the new solution is, what's pulling you so what about a pull?
Lilliana Robinson: Did Brian feel.
Uğur Koç | dert: When he was traveling. He was able to, you know, sleep better rather than you know, compared to his old
Uğur Koç | dert: home situation. Realize. Wow! Like this is what it could have been.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, exactly, or one of Bob's favorite quotes is, contrast creates meaning. It was in one of Neil's 1st decks.
Lilliana Robinson: That is exactly it so he not only was he suffering at home, he knows what good feels like.
Lilliana Robinson: and that new solution he wants every night to feel like these hotels that's pulling him. He knows what good feels like, and he wants that because he has felt the contrast. I think, without feeling that contrast. He may not have
Lilliana Robinson: kind of like, tipped the line and went and bought a new mattress. He might have just put up with the status quo, so that Poll is really important for this story.
Lilliana Robinson: Another poll I highlighted here was
Lilliana Robinson: Being able to feel the mattress with his own hands in the store.
Lilliana Robinson: My wife was also present, and she gave it the okay
Lilliana Robinson: habit. So habits are
Lilliana Robinson: holding you back to the status quo.
Lilliana Robinson: I like that. It says the tug of historical allegiance. It's you're stuck in your ways. You don't want to change. Humans are creatures of habit. They don't like changing and if you have enough allegiance to the status quo, then no amount of push or pull is going to move you. So what's a habit that we overcame to get Brian to purchase a new mattress.
George Reed - Noetic: Did you say? Like the
George Reed - Noetic: okay? He might have put it as like laziness because they had a new baby or something like that. They had.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, he didn't want to go out and buy lazy you like laziness, or in a
Lilliana Robinson: I would say, like a non desire to to go through the whole hiring process.
Lilliana Robinson: It's easier and less research heavy to just stick with the thing he has. He doesn't have time for that.
Lilliana Robinson: It seems arduous.
Morgan Stanton: Wasn't he grossed out by the mattress store, too, or he didn't like the mattress store, like, you know, like laying in all the beds.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep, Germaphobia, that was a big part of Brian, and so it's like I can be clean in my home if I don't embark on this journey I completely agree. I would say Germaphobia may have been more of an anxiety than a habit. We'll get to anxiety in one second, but it's a good one, Morgan. Another habit was like he was used to buying mattresses from his uncle, even though they were like terrible.
Lilliana Robinson: so like he, he had an allegiance to that. I remember he didn't want to kind of like, go behind his back and like buy from somewhere else, even though he was getting a terrible deal with his uncle's store.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's habit.
Lilliana Robinson: also just him being used to his current mattress, even though it's horrible. He's learned to live with it. I mean, he still uses it. He's used it for 2 years. That's the habit.
Lilliana Robinson: and it's like, isn't it good enough for me to just not have to change
Lilliana Robinson: clearly not, but I almost was anxiety.
Lilliana Robinson: so anxiety. Morgan just gave us a great example, but anxiety is uncertainty. It's exactly what it sounds like. You're anxious, I just call it fear. It's usually you're afraid of something or something's making you uncertain or uneasy.
Lilliana Robinson: So Germaphobia was great. Morgan said he didn't want to go into mattress stores because they're gross and like they don't clean it. And he didn't want to lay where other people have laid, so he just wanted to avoid it altogether.
Lilliana Robinson: Another anxiety may have been circumventing his wife. I remember a big deal was like his wife needed to give an okay, and if he just went and shopped for one, he was afraid she wouldn't like it. They share the bed, so it's a big deal, for if she likes it too. And he was all worried about
Lilliana Robinson: including her in the decision.
Lilliana Robinson: Another one that I included here is, will the new mattress deliver on its promise? So basically, he's been scorned in the past by buying these bad mattresses from his uncle, so will the new mattress. Help me! What if it doesn't? What if I'm paying all this money and it's not worth it? And what if I hate it? Can I return it so like. There were a lot of uncertainties there.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Liliana was.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I think it was a while ago that I I it's like a couple of weeks back when I listened to it last, but I think
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: he mentioned as well he didn't want to deal with. He didn't know what to do with his old mattress when the new one came in. I think he was.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: That was kind of causing some anxiety that he had to then think about
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: offloading the other mattress. I think he still kept it
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: for a while, or something right.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right. When he got a new one from his uncle. Right? You're saying he kept the so like 2 mattresses ago. He kept it under that mattress as like a box.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm pretty sure that's what he says, which is like, it's really funny. It's like you're so afraid of figuring it out that like, you just ignore the problem.
Lilliana Robinson: So yeah, I agree. That was another big one. So like, can I return it also? What do I do with my new mattress, and then, if he got a new one, he would have 3 mattresses. What am I supposed to do with that? Exactly. So Brian was a very anxious guy and had a lot of anxieties. Every interviewee is different, I'd say, like he really trended heavily toward anxieties and pushes.
Lilliana Robinson: Those were like the main drivers, and then the push and pulls ended up, outweighing the habits and anxieties right? Because he ended up purchasing.
Lilliana Robinson: So that was just a little refresher of forces. Back to our principles. So we're going to review some principles, since this is our final lecture, and then we're going to go through a synthesis activity. And then I'll answer any questions.
Lilliana Robinson: So for our principles. Now that you guys have read demand side sales, these things will resonate even more than they did the 1st time we taught you a couple of weeks ago.
Lilliana Robinson: which was almost 3 weeks ago, which is crazy.
Lilliana Robinson: People buy for their own reasons. The whole reason that we're doing this is because we cannot conjure up a reason that people buy people hired Clay Christensen and Bob Mesta from these
Lilliana Robinson: massive enterprise corporations. And they wouldn't have had to if they could just sit in their like in their office and understand or deduce why people buy, but you can't, because people are fickle. People are different, and it's really hard to understand when you're not putting yourself in their shoes or talking to them directly.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's less about the supply side. People buy a mattress for Xyz feature. We can't really make that assumption. That would be an unfounded assumption that a lot of people make. And it's a i would say, a giant fault that a lot of companies
Lilliana Robinson: have their whole downfall
Lilliana Robinson: waited on.
Lilliana Robinson: rather that we have the demand side where people buy a mattress because they need better sleep. Or people buy Xyz. Because of this situation.
Lilliana Robinson: so less about this less about any specific feature or reason they buy, and more about this, and the principle being they buy for their own reasons. It's nothing that from the supply side we can think of from our laptops, from our office. We can make this great feature and think that sales go up because
Lilliana Robinson: because of it. But there's really a lot of background that we're not getting when we don't delve into the customer's struggle.
Lilliana Robinson: Principle number 2. Nothing is random. Everything is caused.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: for the supply side, if you're looking at a clipboard of a graph of all of your purchasers and every purchase, every purchaser is just a little dot. It's gonna seem quite random for why people are making the decisions they're making. If it's persona focused. If you're just looking at demographics, if you're just looking at these charts of what? Where people are buying and who they are. You're missing a lot of context.
Lilliana Robinson: So the buyer's situation and their worldview needs to be considered. So it's a lot less about persona which we've talked about a lot more about their situation and their worldview, which can supersede any sort of persona.
Lilliana Robinson: I can have a lot more in common with my neighbor, who is an 80 year old man. Who has a job that's completely different than mine, and grew up in a completely different place.
Lilliana Robinson: We can have a lot more in common by having the same situation than any person that you could pull out of a hat that matches my own demographics. So it's really important that we understand that
Lilliana Robinson: that's why a lot of people chalk things up to randomness
Lilliana Robinson: when they're doing research on their customers.
Lilliana Robinson: Principle 3 is the struggling moment creates the demand, so you cannot manufacture demand. That's my favorite way to say it. There's no way to manufacture, demand. A lot of people think all the bells and whistles can manufacture demand. I'm going to have this product and this feature. And we've done these user interviews. So this feature is the one that people say hypothetically, they would buy if I add, No.
Lilliana Robinson: there's no way to manufacture demand because it is a natural
Lilliana Robinson: affect
Lilliana Robinson: of a situation happening in someone's life, people will naturally have needs. So all we have to do as entrepreneurs is, find that energy and then solve the problem where the energy already exists. We can't really manufacture it, or else we're just selling vitamins. We can convince people that. Oh, this might better your life a little bit. But
Lilliana Robinson: we're not going to have the demand there. We might convince a couple of people. But you guys aren't going to become 1 billion dollar businesses that way. So this is a huge principle for you guys
Lilliana Robinson: rather than trying to manufacture demand. The buyers. Job creates the demand for you. It's not your job as an entrepreneur, as a business owner to manufacture that demand. The demand exists in the world. And you're just there trying to find it. That is the world view that we should have as entrepreneurs.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so just remember why people buy. That's the whole
Lilliana Robinson: summary of these principles to make progress in their lives which we've talked about. Remember the bridge. We have a person on the other side of the cliff. There's lightning light bulb where they want to get to, and they just want to cross, and we're just here to build the bridge for them to help them get where they want to go. So we just have to find people who are at the cliff who don't have a bridge. That's the whole point
Lilliana Robinson: cool. So now with that review, let's practice how to synthesize.
Lilliana Robinson: We are going to all be a part of a company like I said last week. We're 30 people working on one company, and I'm calling it mattress stars. So you've heard of tech stars. Now we work for mattress stars. We are a mattress company very similar to the company that hired Bob to do the mattress interview
Lilliana Robinson: for Interviewee one. This is Brian.
Lilliana Robinson: I have come up with the following jobs to be done statement, or we, as a company have when my wife calls me out for being cranky after not sleeping well for 5 years. I want to stop tolerating my inadequate mattress and poor sleep.
Lilliana Robinson: so I can give my kids more attention and ease. My wife's frustration.
Lilliana Robinson: Is, anyone. Is everyone in the company here in agreement that this is a good jobs to be done. Statement that represents Brian's interview.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone
Lilliana Robinson: want to add anything.
Fabio Caironi: I like the I want to stop tolerating versus, you know. I want to sleep well, it's like it's creating contrast in this sentence. And the way it's framed. It's kind of like highlighting the problem even more. And it's very interesting.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, and I think it. It could go the other way, too. Right? I I want to have an adequate mattress and better sleep.
Lilliana Robinson: I would even just say, I I want to have better sleep right? Cause it's he doesn't even specifically want the mattress. That's what we're.
Morgan Stanton: Is adding the mattress and making it too much of like a product. Push like.
Lilliana Robinson: I was just kind of thinking that, Morgan. I'm glad that you said that. Yeah, I agree.
Lilliana Robinson: So these are up for debate. So like. I actually do think that would take out my inadequate mattress, and I would just say, I want to stop tolerating poor sleep, or rather, I want good sleep, cause. That's what Brian's buying. He's not. He's not buying a new mattress, agreed.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's
Lilliana Robinson: those are some refinements that I would make. But overall. This is Brian's statement that we're going to go with.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: I'm going to repeat that process for each interviewee. So for this round of our mattress, stars jobs be done. Cycle. I believe we do 7 interviews. Yeah, we'll see if that's the correct number. But we do about 7 interviews. Obviously we should do more than that. But that's how many that we're going to do for this exercise. We created the following screening criteria over the past few weeks.
Lilliana Robinson: We were looking for working fathers who travel more than 8 weeks out of the year, and have bought a mattress in the last 90 days, so they have to have children at home, and they have to travel more than 8 weeks out of the year, and they've bought a mattress for their homes in the last 90 days.
Lilliana Robinson: I think we could even add in some more things here to make it more specific for what we're looking for.
Lilliana Robinson: But our learning objective. Here is really we're trying to make a new line of mattresses that are targeted toward people who work a lot and we cause we noticed a lot of people were buying from that kind of situation. And we want to understand what what they're buying for, so that we can make product and marketing changes to serve this segment kind of like the milkshakes we noticed a lot of people are buying milkshakes. We want to know why, so we can serve that segment same thing here.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: we came up with a bunch of job speed on statements for each interviewee. So we did end up finding 7.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm going to go through each of them. I didn't build a slide build here, so just bear with me with all this text, but we're just going to go through one at a time.
Lilliana Robinson: So interview number 2, we did the interview, and our team came up with the following jobs to be done statement
Lilliana Robinson: when I get home after long travel, and my home is being renovated. I want a quick way to purchase a mattress for my new bedroom without having to go pick it up or try it out, so I can spend the most time with my family as possible.
Lilliana Robinson: So this person sounds like they have a really busy life.
Lilliana Robinson: It sounds like it was a time and convenience purchase. They just want the mattress to come to their house as quickly as possible. They're hectic at home. They're hectic at work, their homes being renovated. They just want to spend time with their family before they have to leave on their next work. Trip.
Lilliana Robinson: Interviewee number 3.
Lilliana Robinson: When I have limited time with my family, I want my kids to be the least cranky as possible by getting great sleep, so I can enjoy time with my wife instead of fighting.
Lilliana Robinson: So already does anyone notice contrast between 3 and 2.
Kevin Su: Yeah. 3 just doesn't even mention the mattress at all. It's just I don't know what he wants for his life.
Kevin Su: Emotional well-being.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, so much more worried about emotional and social. I agree with that. Any other differences here.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I would say it's less focused in terms of picking up the mattress and getting the actual mattress, but rather about the the outcome, which is the quality, sleep
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and time.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So this one's a lot more outcome focus. It's it's a lot less about the process of buying the mattress kind of like, Brian really cared about the process. This one is, I just want the outcome, which is interesting because
Lilliana Robinson: the competition for Interviewee 3 is going to be very different than the competitions for one and 2, 1 and 2 are very much about how we buy the mattress. So competition for Brian, as we heard, was like online mattress stores, Costco all of those different things. Interview E. 3 might be competing with melatonin
Lilliana Robinson: or chamomile tea. What was so interesting? Right? And I would say. Another main difference is that Interviewee 3 is not buying the mattress for themselves.
Lilliana Robinson: which is very interesting. So if if this were our true round of jobs to be done, and we got to interview E. 3. We would have to make the decision
Lilliana Robinson: to either continue with our vague screening criteria here
Lilliana Robinson: or specify that they need to have bought the mattress for themselves and or their partner, because it does make it kind of different like. It's going to be harder to draw patterns when it's we are making it different like this. Maybe we don't care. It depends on our learning objective. So for this exercise, our company decided we don't care if they bought it for themselves or not. But this is something I tried to teach you guys where it's like, if you do see like a very far differing pattern.
Lilliana Robinson: Maybe you need to cut your screening criteria down even further, so that everyone had the exact same scenario, so we decided to leave it. And you'll see this is a mix of people buying it for themselves or for some other room in their house, and we draw conclusions for that, anyways. But I do want to point out, like, you guys might see that in your interviews where it's like, Oh, they actually have a completely different situation. And it's not as relevant. Let me narrow my screening criteria to people who only bought it for themselves.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense.
Lilliana Robinson: It depends on what objective you're trying to get to, but sometimes it is better to for pattern drawing to make it much more congruent together, so that you can see those very nuanced differences. Dave.
Dave Scott: So is is, can you make it too narrow? So, is there a concern that all of the answers could be too much the same? Or is that only good.
Lilliana Robinson: I think too narrow, would only be like you. Try for months, and you can't find anyone outside of this one person. Remember, Neil called those like exceptions. So like, sometimes people make their screening criteria around this one experience they had with this one customer. But it was really an exception. They're never gonna find a customer like that again, like someone banging down their door trying to buy their product. For example, we can't really make that the screening criteria cause. That was probably a a once a year kind of thing
Lilliana Robinson: other than that, I would say. It's not really too narrow. It just depends on what your objective is. So our objective here is we just want to sell to the people who work a lot who are buying mattresses. And our company actually doesn't really care if they're buying it for themselves or someone else kind of like with the milkshakes. We didn't ask if they were buying it for themselves or someone. Later, we just or someone in their passenger seat that they're carpooling to work for. He didn't talk about any of that, because it just mattered why they were buying it.
Lilliana Robinson: So that I guess the answer is, no, Dave, I don't think you can go too narrow.
Lilliana Robinson: and you can always expand outward.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin.
Lilliana Robinson: you're on mute, Kevin.
Kevin Su: Sorry. Just to clarify here it should. So it should be narrow enough where our ideal candidate shares the same
Kevin Su: emotional need or sentiment with other candidates, but not so narrow where you only have that one sentiment across like 1020 interviews. Is that is that right?
Lilliana Robinson: No, it's totally fine to have that one sentiment across 10 to 20 interviews. You would just end up getting one cluster, and you would have like a very strong understanding of that one cluster. It just depends on your learning objective. So I'm throwing this out here as something that you guys could choose to do. If you face the same like
Lilliana Robinson: difference in your interviews. We, as Master stars are going to choose to continue on. And we actually aren't going to shave down our screening criteria. We just are going to continue the round and do the synthesis, and you'll see that we're able to still draw conclusions, but depending on your learning objective, it might be really important, because maybe we want to really dig into why they would buy it for themselves. And those can that can have like product implications versus having this like much wider variety.
Lilliana Robinson: cause. Think about it with this wider variety, where they're buying for different people. We're not actually going to get the insights on like. Why, the man himself would want like certain
Lilliana Robinson: features on the mattress, or anything like that. We're just gonna get to know, like why they would buy it. So a lot like Will was saying, we're going to get a lot more of why, the process is alluring. A lot of how the situation
Lilliana Robinson: came to be, and what convenience allowed them to buy it, what things happened on their work trip to allow them to buy it. We're not going to get to know as much about like their sleep, because some of these are buying it for people that aren't the interviewee.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense.
Kevin Su: Yeah, yeah, that is, I appreciate it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So I'm just pointing out things that you guys might face as you're going through.
Lilliana Robinson: This is something that you might want to do. You might want to go back. If you're noticing that some
Lilliana Robinson: interviewees are kind of like differing, and if they differ too far, and you feel like you're not going to get the insights that you're looking for for your specific learning objective. I recommend going back and
Lilliana Robinson: refining this. So
Lilliana Robinson: interview. E, 3, a little bit different, also super valuable. Though we got a lot of social and emotional motivations.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's do interview before.
Lilliana Robinson: When I have a demanding job, I want to minimize the amount of headaches I get from lack of sleep. So I can enjoy my weekends and do the activities I like to do.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so we're noticing some different things here. This person is a lot more worried about their recuperation post trip.
Lilliana Robinson: Still about making sure that they can make the most of the time. If you notice the difference between 4 and one. Still, about time, one is a lot more about being with the family. One's a lot more about enjoying the weekend, enjoying their activities. So a little bit of differing there. But I would say pretty similar to interviewee 2
Lilliana Robinson: interviewee 5. When I have a restless partner. I want a mattress with motion isolation, so I can sleep through the night uninterrupted, and mitigate my annoyance with her. My partner, I would say, there's a problem with Number 5. I actually think I purposely left this in here so that you guys could figure out the problem.
Lilliana Robinson: does anyone see a problem with
Lilliana Robinson: how someone from our team me
Lilliana Robinson: wrote this job statement.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): This one has to do more with a feature.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: this is wrong. I fell into them. I want to trap. So whenever I did the interview E. 5 interview weeks ago, I was not thinking about what the customer wants. What what are they buying? I was just thinking what I'm selling, or what the person was selling when they made this purchase. They don't want a mattress with motion isolation. Can you
Lilliana Robinson: probably think, Monica, something not feature based on the context here that they would want.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah, they just want
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): restful sleep.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: I want a good night's sleep
Lilliana Robinson: so that I can be interrupted and mitigate annoyance with her.
Lilliana Robinson: So basically, I might be, I want my partner to be able to sleep soundly. That's probably what they want, so that they themselves can sleep through the night, and they cannot be annoyed with their partner because they can't help the fact that they're restless, so they want to mitigate their annoyance with the partner.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, Liliana, we we can't emphasize enough
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how often this happens.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it will happen with one of you in your room when you're doing your synthesis. You're going to say, oh, what they want is, and then you're gonna identify a feature of your app. It's such a common thing, because I I think most founders do it, and they don't know any better, and we're not critiquing it. But we're just calling it out like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's almost like missing the point like you lost the plot. If you're dropping in a feature of your of your app at that mid part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hate sorry, Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: Oh, yeah. And I was just about to say, Yeah, maybe this can still work if we just move the last part of the sentence into I want so like I want an uninterrupted like sleep, and mitigate my annoyance with my wife, so I can sleep
Fabio Caironi: and like and take away the the feature at all.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, or I want to sleep through the night uninterrupted, so that I can mitigate my annoyance with her, because mitigating the annoyance seems to be the outcome that he's trying to trend towards. Yeah, agreed. So these are all mistakes you guys are gonna make like not having narrow enough screening criteria and making this, I want issues. So I remember leaving these things in so we could talk about it together. You guys are gonna go through the exact same processes and hit this exact same problem. So maybe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: George called out, number 7 as well, same same deal.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I'll I'll get there in one second. Let's do 6.
Lilliana Robinson: When I have a child leave for college. I want to utilize their bedroom as a guest room and update their old nineties mattress. So I can provide the best quality. Rest to my guests.
Lilliana Robinson: Very interesting. This one is also not buying for themselves. This one is a very specific situation. And it's very interesting that this situation fell into our screening criteria because it kind of seems like they're in a completely different situation than the rest. But this person happens to fall fall into working fathers who travel more than 8 weeks out of the year. I would say. That's probably
Lilliana Robinson: a key to knowing your screening criteria was probably too vague, because this is completely separate than the other things that we've been seeing. It has nothing to do with the fact that they work or travel. So I would say.
Lilliana Robinson: that's probably a big, red, flashing light that you need to narrow your screening criteria. You guys might find similar things like, Oh, this person actually was in a completely different scenario, even though they fit my screening criteria. So just keep that in mind. You might want to narrow it if that happens. And then 7. I think George was saying same problem with that I want. I want a specialized anti snoring mattress. I agree this is the same problem. So when my wife is bothered by my snoring and becomes irritable with me. I want
Lilliana Robinson: something that's not the featured mattress, so I can help my wife sleep more peacefully. It's probably I want to stop snoring in the night if I had to guess. He doesn't care how it is. This is very important, because I want you guys to understand the job statement should be able to apply to each of the competitors that they would use. So remember, from the milkshake, the job statement was, I want something that I can eat
Lilliana Robinson: with one hand that I can quickly get on the way to work, and that lasts me. The whole drive
Lilliana Robinson: that was those were the only things that the person wanted. So what can fall into that? The milkshake they're buying also what they said. Banana doughnuts, a bunch of stuff like that
Lilliana Robinson: for this. When my wife is bothered by my snoring and becomes irritable with me, I want to stop snoring so I can help my wife sleep more peacefully. What is something that's not a specialized anti snoring mattress that could also
Lilliana Robinson: like help this person, or or be described by this job statement. Can anyone think of anything.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Change.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Uğur Koç | dert: Yeah. Go ahead.
Lilliana Robinson: Pap. That's what I was thinking. Anyone else.
Uğur Koç | dert: I mean, there are these small nose pad thingies that you stick so that you know they elevate your nose nostrils, and
Uğur Koç | dert: how much. Do you sleep better, I guess.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's what came to mind immediately for me, like the breath right open, open nostril strips. That's another one, a humidifier like there are a lot of things that could fall into this. So do you see the pitfall of putting? I want a specialized anti snoring mattress, even if the person says like. So I started looking for these online. That's not actually what they want, that their desire is to stop snoring. Their desire is to not annoy their wife.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's really important that you don't insert a product in here, because then you're gonna take away all of the other insights you could get from the other competitors that they also might be have been considering based on this job statement. So I'm glad we were able to dissect so overall.
Lilliana Robinson: There are some changes that could be made, but these are good enough for us to do our synthesis. So let's go with what we have here. Of course we would go back and edit these, based on what our team here at Mattress stars have. Said I do agree with all of your edits. We're going to go with them for now, for the sake of the presentation. I would like to know if anyone
Lilliana Robinson: can already see some clusters. So we're going to start pairing them together. We're going to put like 2 to 3 into each cluster. Does anyone want to take a stab at which ones you would group together.
George Reed - Noetic: It's definitely one around the like. As I just said that in the chat, wanting my wife to be happy with me and like me sort of.
Lilliana Robinson: And.
George Reed - Noetic: That's like the core driver
George Reed - Noetic: 7 and 5 would be. And then what other? What do we read the others? But.
Lilliana Robinson: We're just putting 2 or 3 together. That's totally.
George Reed - Noetic: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, so like 7 and 5. Anyone else.
Uğur Koç | dert: 2 and 3 licks nowhere.
Lilliana Robinson: 2 and 3. What is the similarity here.
Uğur Koç | dert: Well, they're both focused on the family aspect of things. So they're both focused on the like. I guess maybe the 7 is also, you know, talking about the wife. But you know, from what I'm like, if I'm looking at these, and then looking at the
Uğur Koç | dert: 4th one that is solely concentrated about the person themselves like that. These people are buying stuff for other people's sakes rather than their own comfort, and then, in that sense, it. The 7, and also 6 also falls into also 5 as well, falls into the same cluster.
Lilliana Robinson: Hmm!
Lilliana Robinson: It's very fun having. Yeah, go ahead, George. You can.
George Reed - Noetic: Oh, sorry, sorry, Liliana. Sorry I was. Gonna say, like I think about this often as well with clustering insights. It's like it's more like a Venn diagram. Actually. So we're looking for the where the sort of
George Reed - Noetic: idea tribes sort of overlap
George Reed - Noetic: finding those overlaps. And this can be like powerful.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
George Reed - Noetic: Too.
Lilliana Robinson: And what's really interesting is what I was gonna say, it's really fun having you guys as my co-founders for mattress stars, because you guys are pointing out things that I actually didn't. I didn't pull as the clusters I made, which I'll show you in a second. So when you have your team. Or maybe you're working with one of our associates. If you're a solo founder when you're gathering these insights.
Lilliana Robinson: you guys are gonna disagree. And that's okay. So like, you guys are pointing out similarities that are things I wasn't considering. I actually was thinking a lot more with 2 going with number 6, because the home itself is changing. So to me, that was like a completely different cluster, 2 and 6. But I do agree with or 2 and 3 could go together, because those are the ones that are the most worried about family spending time with children.
Lilliana Robinson: That's completely valid, too. So it's really fun. Because you guys can kind of argue and debate and try to put things into different categories. And it really just depends on where the most energy is. So I can't do this right now, because I don't have
Lilliana Robinson: the actual interviews to draw from.
Lilliana Robinson: But you guys will. So when you're doing it, you might notice a smaller similarity. But you know from the interview that there was a much larger energy in the interview for this area.
Lilliana Robinson: So maybe Interviewee 2 actually doesn't care that much, that it's being renovated, and they only care about spending time with the family, in which case we're putting 2 and 3 together is much more valid. So you see how it's much more of an art we're we're not really teaching you a science. It's much more like you're creating a a painting, and there's not really a right or wrong answer. It's just where the most energy is.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: I. If I had my way, I would. I focus on clusters based on the when. And I want, because that's how you source your
Fabio Caironi: like your candidates or your prospects like you kind of focus on
Fabio Caironi: on a cluster on a pool of of customers that have the same situations and
Fabio Caironi: intentions. And then then what they want to achieve, you know, can can actually be achieved once you sell them the product. So I would put together like
Fabio Caironi: the interviewees that have having some sort of like troubles and some hassles with sleep, which is like interview, for
Fabio Caironi: who has headaches, you know we have 5. Who are, you know, like
Fabio Caironi: has his wife? Just moving around and interview 7. Who is knowing? So that you know you could cluster them, because you know they're they're having trouble sleeping. And so you, I'm thinking, you know, maybe an ad that you can show them about, you know. Travel trouble sleeping, you know. Try our new super, cool mattresses, or something more sophisticated than that. And then there's another thing I wanted to point out. That really like
Fabio Caironi: strike me as very interesting is that each of these interviewees, basically
Fabio Caironi: can have a different
Fabio Caironi: competitor like the product they're buying is a mattress. But the competitor for each of these interviewees is different. We were discussing about the anti snoring mattress.
Fabio Caironi: The the competitor for that is like a Cpap or in. In the case of the
Fabio Caironi: the Intro Bb. 4 who has headaches, the competitors for that is like a, you know, a pill or something like that. So it's very interesting to see how the competitor landscape
Fabio Caironi: it's it's different for every interviewee, and
Fabio Caironi: it's not just an apprentice.
Lilliana Robinson: I would even say that that's a fault of this round, I would say you. You do want to start seeing where the competitors overlap, and you can start gaining clusters by that like by identifying their competitors they would use or were using or switched from, and that can help you to make clusters, I would say, that is probably a big flaw in this round that I'm presenting to you guys here, and I probably should have like narrowed the screening criteria to allow for more pattern overlap.
Lilliana Robinson: These are actually pretty disparate for what I would want to see from yours.
Lilliana Robinson: I think it works for this example I'm gonna give. But I would want you guys to have a lot more overlap, a lot more overlap of competitors, a lot more overlap of situations and desires as well as even outcomes. So keep that in mind. This is just an example, and it's not a very strong set of jobs to be done, because I think that they should have had a lot more similarities, and that all comes from having that really general screening criteria. I showed you
Lilliana Robinson: so great to point out. Fabio.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so here is what I came up with as the clusters. So I put 2 and 6 together like, I just said because it was a lot more about situation for me. I see that other people were talking about the outcome they wanted, which was focused on family. I think that's also valid. So it just depends on what you hash out with your team and where you land the next one. I put 3 and 4 together, because this one was specifically about time getting time back.
Lilliana Robinson: I could have thrown 2 in there as well, but I felt like 2 and 6 were so different that I wanted to pull them out.
Lilliana Robinson: And then 5 and 7 I put together because both had to do with their partner, which was very specific, and I felt like I might be able to learn something about how to market, to people who sleep with a partner, and have, like sleeping issues that affect one or both of them. Annie.
Annie Brown: I mean, I guess going back to
Annie Brown: I I guess I have a question about the screening criteria for this, because I know in in when we were presenting our screening criteria, some people are comparing it to a very specific competitor, so like, could you narrow this down like say, like.
Annie Brown: you know, mentioning to people who only bought mattresses, not, you know, the Cpap machine or the melatonin, or things like that like, would that help narrow this down if you made the screening criteria specifically focused on that?
Annie Brown: Other mattresses? Were your competitor.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, so we do have the screening criteria listed as like bought a mattress in the last 90 days.
Annie Brown: Hmm.
Lilliana Robinson: But what I'm talking about for competitors is what they switch from
Lilliana Robinson: or what they were also considering. So even even though all these people made a mattress purchase. They may have been considering or tried.
Lilliana Robinson: or we're currently using something different. And for that difference, like what you'll see is if you can get it narrow enough for
Lilliana Robinson: All like for the screening criteria. A lot of people will have switched from a similar thing, or will have tried a similar thing like for air pods. Whenever Neil and I interview people in university they usually have switched from like
Lilliana Robinson: the bows, like in ear ones like there are a few that, like everyone tries right before biting the bullet and just paying the full amount for air pods that we noticed, and that like, basically, you'll get to the point where each cluster is switching from a similar thing or has tried similar things. And it didn't work so like, maybe we would get to the point if we narrowed it down. And we really wanted to get a bunch of people like Interviewee 7. We might get to a point where
Lilliana Robinson: every single person has tried a cpap machine. But the wife doesn't like it because it's so loud, or something like that. So they want a mattress or a silent
Lilliana Robinson: competitor to try, and that's why they buy a mattress something like that.
Lilliana Robinson: Now keep in mind.
Lilliana Robinson: I made this up so there are a lot of flaws in this, because I didn't actually like mattress stars is an actual company, so I can't like. I said, I can't manufacture demand. You guys will have a lot more truth in yours, and that's why we're seeing so many flaws here. So like this is just an exercise. I wish that I could like come up with like people's true desires, but
Lilliana Robinson: I can't.
Annie Brown: This is, this is great. And so would you say, then, that that the screening criteria that was very specific?
Annie Brown: saying, like to a specific competitor is better, better to do than
Annie Brown: broad. Or do you kind of start out broad when you're learning with your screening criteria, and then get more specific. As you learn about your competition.
Lilliana Robinson: So a quick like change in wording that you're saying you wouldn't add a competitor to the screening criteria.
Lilliana Robinson: Having the similar competitors is a by product of making your criteria and more narrow. So you would, you would start to see that those people have similar experiences. So what I was suggesting is like we pick any one of these that we would want to go into. So we start seeing that 2, 3, and 4 are a little bit different. So we can either go with people who are like having.
Lilliana Robinson: like sick or illness issues and not sleeping like 4. We can go with 3, which is buying, buying a mattress for someone that's not yourself. 2 you can.
Lilliana Robinson: You can talk about having like a home change. Or maybe we just want more people like Brian who bought it for themselves because they couldn't sleep. And so it's like we would
Lilliana Robinson: make our screening criteria more narrow, and as a result, you would start seeing these interviewee job speed on statements like coalesce and have similar experiences and have similar competitors that they're switching from like you're not gonna put the competitors in this. It would just be a byproduct.
Annie Brown: Okay.
Annie Brown: Alright. Great. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: But your question about starting narrow, and then, like being even more narrow, you want to start pretty narrow like this is already pretty narrow, and then it's up to you if you want to make it even more narrow, which I do recommend. If you're seeing things as disparate as what I have here a lot of people do, and when you don't change you, you're gonna come back to us and say, I didn't get very valuable insights, and that's because you're not able to draw strong patterns.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is probably the upper limit of how disparate you would want it to be to still get strong clustering because we are going to get clusters from this. But I would say I would want it to be a lot more
Lilliana Robinson: like coalesced and have, like a lot higher pattern overlap. When you guys are doing your clustering.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, thank you for asking that, Annie.
Lilliana Robinson: does that make sense?
Lilliana Robinson: So these are the groups I came up with.
Lilliana Robinson: There are no wrong answers. So like you guys could come up with completely separate
Lilliana Robinson: clusters for these, and even as an exercise it would be cool to go and try and cluster different ones, and see what insights and like analyses you can grasp from that. So if, like, for example, or you wanted to go back and actually put 2 and 3 together, what would that mean for that cluster? And like, what implications. Can you pull from that? So you can do that as an exercise, or you have a question.
Uğur Koç | dert: Yeah, like, let's say that you know at the end we are left with these, you know, 7 interviews that we've conducted, and like these are the end results we get. Does it make sense for us as a company to, you know, find the common trend between all of these 7 interviews and then decide on.
Uğur Koç | dert: maybe.
Uğur Koç | dert: Well, these interviews are all concerned about family matters. Let's say so. We should direct ourselves like, is it important? The amount of commonalities between these things? Do those commonalities signal a proper way to market our product? Or should we just
Uğur Koç | dert: narrow down into one of these colors of stars like, let's say, the green stars, and then develop something for those green ones.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, you're asking, should we find similarities between all of them? I would say, because we do cluster from the round like it's very rare to just have one job statement. For, like all because you guys are going to do 10 to 15 in a round, you're you're usually not just going to find one. You're gonna find a couple of different clusters within your jobs round. I don't know if, Neil, how often do you see all of them having a strong enough tie together that you would just get one cluster
Lilliana Robinson: out of all 10 to 15.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know if I've seen that happen. I think it's primarily
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's there's 1 that you want to target as the primary, and there's a few that you're keeping in mind, or that you may want to actively decide not to focus on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or even not even design for anymore.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's usually what happens.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool. So let's talk about what the implications are. So you guys are gonna have much stronger
Lilliana Robinson: like clusters here. But we're going to go with these so that you guys can see what the next step is. So 1st is cluster one. So I'm putting interviewees 1, 3, and 4. So one is Brian.
Lilliana Robinson: this one.
Lilliana Robinson: and then 3 and 4 are here with the green stars. So that's going to be cluster one. And here's how I drew a conclusion for cluster one.
Lilliana Robinson: When I am having emotional struggles within my children, due to lack of sleep, I want to increase rest by purchasing a new comfortable mattress, so I can improve the quality of my limited time at home with my family.
Lilliana Robinson: This is
Lilliana Robinson: something I drew. You could also draw completely different insights from overlapping those. So it's really where the most energy was in your interview.
Lilliana Robinson: Cluster 2. Interview E. 5 and 7. So this is the blue stars. This is the one where they both have issues with their partner.
Lilliana Robinson: When my partner and I disrupt each other's sleep at night, due to certain medical conditions, and it causes tension in our marriage. I want to update our mattress to one with features specifically designed to address the issue. So I can improve our sleep quality and in turn our relationship. So if you remember, 5 and 7 were the ones that have the I want as a product focus. And so naturally, the summarized job speed on statement. Here also has it. So I would probably update this
Lilliana Robinson: to ex put the, I want to be much more in line with the kinds of things we discussed that we would change it to. So I want to stop interrupting our sleep at night. I want to sleep better. I want me and my partner to both sleep better so that our relationship can be improved. That's probably what I would change. Here
Lilliana Robinson: cluster 3
Lilliana Robinson: interviewees, 2 and 6. So these are the yellow stars. And these are the ones that I saw have like home changes. So it's not just like the status quo. Something is specifically changing with their home that caused them to buy the mattress. I felt like it was important to take those out, even though they still had like familial issues or things that could be linked with other interviews, because I felt like it was so different that they weren't just living their normal life and trying to improve
Lilliana Robinson: with their family. They had a specific circumstance or impetus, so I felt like pulling those out would maintain the integrity of the other 2 clusters. And if I were running this company and doing things, I actually would probably throw out cluster 3, because it's so different from what I'm trying to learn. I'm trying to just learn
Lilliana Robinson: why working fathers buy their mattresses to kind of improve their everyday life. It's not. I'm not really interested in them having a particular life circumstance like their house changing. So I would if this were my company, and we were actually going to make implications, I would probably ignore Cluster 3. And I pulled this out purposefully.
Lilliana Robinson: Other people have mentioned that they would throw in interviewee 2 with Interviewee 3, which I think is equally as valid. So it's up to you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: cluster 3. When I'm updating my home and change one of the bedrooms. I want a quick and easy way to obtain a comfortable mattress that fits the new requirements of the space, so I can easily begin utilizing the new room as quickly as possible.
Lilliana Robinson: So that was 2 and 6, 1 of them. They had a new guest room because their child left, and and the other one, they are renovating their house. So they needed a new mattress.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is what I want you guys to do. You're gonna take your interviews. You're gonna line them up. You're gonna have a job statement for each one. You guys are gonna discuss together whiteboard it. However, you'd like find clusters, find similarities, and then make sure that those are the similarities that have the most energy. Then you're going to make a summarized jobs to be done statement. Making sure not to fall into this, I want to trap.
Lilliana Robinson: and for each cluster you will have this refined, summarized Gtpd statement that represents each cluster.
Lilliana Robinson: As you can see, this is very similar to what basecamp did. They had their clusters, and they wrote jobs, read on statements for each, and then they just extracted a title for each cluster based on a quote from one of the interviewees.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll pause here for questions. Because we're going to go into what to do after this in a second.
Lilliana Robinson: Are there any questions here? Yeah, go ahead, Nadi.
Nirat Attri: I think my question has more to do with biases that we would fall into as because there's a subjectivity in assigning the clustering as we just talked about, and everybody can come up with different kind of clustering patterns that they want to to.
Nirat Attri: I mean how? And given the fact that okay, if your team is from the same background, there is also bias which comes as a consequence of thinking in the same way. So how do you address biases that come that way? I mean, I mean almost setting yourself up in the direction that you want to build almost.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, like mitigating confirmation bias. I really like that question. I don't know if, Neil, you have any advice like, how do you mitigate confirmation bias, since the clustering is so subjective like, how do you not just find the clusters where you want them to be already.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, if so, the thing that happens a lot when I'm when I'm doing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: synthesis analysis with people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that the the bias creep starts to come in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just asked the question, well, what did they say?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you you'll start to debate and have this your own interpretation of things, and then you go back to grounding whatever analysis you're doing, to what words were actually said by the person, and that usually forces you to focus on the truth again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you ever find yourself drifting away from what you think is the more unbiased processing of the information.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just go back to the words.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because then I'll look at your each of your websites when you've updated your copy, or whatever place you're marketing or communicating about your business, and I'll read the words, and then I'll ask you, okay, where'd you get that from?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And usually there's a there's a tension there between what was said versus what you're interpreting.
Annie Brown: Yeah, I had a question about that, because it was really interesting in our 1st job to be done interview like, after we finished the interview. It was like me, and Duncan heard very different things in our like when I we did our debrief, and so we were very glad we recorded it, because we're actually gonna like, go back and like.
Annie Brown: like, see what they.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Exactly.
Annie Brown: Cause. Yeah, I think we were thinking different things going into the interview. So
Annie Brown: so then then, basically, yeah. So then you just go back and say, Okay, well, I think they said this. I think they said this, and then you just go back. And you basically like, find a quote. That
Annie Brown: proves what you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yup, and and sometimes sometimes you gotta break a tie. Sometimes you gotta call them back and go, hey, we're we're having a bit of a disagreement over here.
Annie Brown: Interest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We, we, we want to make sense of what we we, I think this, they think that can you help us understand what we actually heard, and and you know what the deal is. So call them back.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great.
Lilliana Robinson: Neil, Neil, and I have a term called happy Ears. That's like you'll hear what you want to hear, and it's very much the confirmation bias that Neroat was asking about and that might have been what happened with you guys, Annie, Annie and Duncan, where it's like you both went in with happy ears. They said something similar to like what you wanted to be true, either of you, in whichever way that you were thinking. And then afterward, you're like, well, this is what they said.
Lilliana Robinson: So you have to make sure not to have happy ears and to really go in listening. But that's why we record. So you have a source of truth. You have a single source of truth. You can go back and look and see what they actually said, listen to their tone. Listen where the energy was, too.
Lilliana Robinson: because you can spin words if you're just reading a transcript. That's why it's important to have the recording. It's like they might have mentioned something offhandedly. But another thing was like very clearly. There was a lot of emotion in what they said. So that is going to outweigh this thing off that, they offhandedly said, even if you're much more interested in going down that path.
Lilliana Robinson: it's not actually the truth of what happened. And then, yeah, I would also say the, for when you're clustering, you basically just want to try your very hardest
Lilliana Robinson: to be unbiased. And when you guys are clustering like when we helped Jake do his. And when we've helped other people do theirs, it's a lot more obvious than this exercise I'm putting forth in front of you right now, like there are very clear patterns that emerge that might even already be emerging. If you've done 2 or 3 so far. These are quite disparate. So it's really easy to see how like subjective you could make it here, because there's a wide
Lilliana Robinson: range of how we could cluster these 7
Lilliana Robinson: for you guys. If you do it correctly, it'll be like screaming at you like, oh, these people had this like burning problem. And these people had a completely different burning problem, even though they all started from the same screening criteria, same top core situation. They had a very different desires and underlying motivations. And it's very clear.
Lilliana Robinson: So hopefully, that will happen to you guys as well. It won't be as like up to chance, you know. It'll be really hard to insert your bias when it's like that clear.
Lilliana Robinson: But those were great questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Any other questions about this part.
Lilliana Robinson: Or do you guys feel good about
Lilliana Robinson: getting your team up to this part in the next couple of weeks? Yeah. Well.
Uğur Koç | dert: I, yeah, sorry.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And so, yeah, just a quick one for me. I I guess. What happens in the event where we've got all this awesome data. And then we, we think, actually, there could be
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: another
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: be the segment that we should be testing. So, for example, with plaster 3.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: When I look at this. The 1st thing that comes to mind is
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: people who are purchasing a new home either for themselves or for maybe an investment property.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and they need to furnish it, or they want to. Perhaps not only update the the bedroom, but they actually want to give the thing a face lift.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Do we?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Would we then want to dive in and unpack that a little bit more? Or do we
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: kind of just keep with the
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: the group that we've got already.
Lilliana Robinson: So there's no like. Would you want to? Because it it depends on what you want for your business. What your learning objective is, if that's valuable to you. But I'll tell you what you can do. So you can either do what if you guys remember the musician entrepreneur? That is our alumni that came for the alumni panel. Mirchan.
Lilliana Robinson: What he saw was he had these outliers in his job suite done where the it wasn't even the musicians that were booking stuff. They were just outsourcing to their managers, and he saw, like 2 of those, and he just completely changed his screening criteria in the middle of the job suite on round and like restarted
Lilliana Robinson: targeting the managers because he had those 2 outliers
Lilliana Robinson: that gave him a lot of success. But if he was building something, and he like really wanted to know why all of the musicians are buying or not buying, and it wasn't as valuable to him to find who was actually making the purchase. Then he would have just tabled that. So the second option is to do what I did here, where you take the cluster, set it aside. Realize that's not really helpful for the learning objective. We're we're trying to go after right now, but go after it later.
Lilliana Robinson: so it would be like if Mcdonald's was doing it with clay. And Clay realized like there were also people who bought milkshakes on the way to school for their kids, and like there was like a big reason why people were doing that.
Lilliana Robinson: That
Lilliana Robinson: that's kind of completely separate from the commuter thing, not actually what they want to go after at this time. Table it and come back to it in another round, because you did find some energy, but it's a distraction from like the insights you're gaining right here. So they're like 2 different ways. You could go full after it when you see this complete, disparate track like Mircha did, and just find a whole new
Lilliana Robinson: treasure trove, or you can just table it and come back completely separately. The last thing you want to do is like, keep it all together, because it'll all be muddled. You want things to be as similar as possible for these analyses.
Lilliana Robinson: But I don't know what you should do. It's up to your business and your learning objective.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I thank you. That's helpful.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, or you focus on the parts of this that aren't different. Like some of these people in your class were saying, well, like Interviewee 2 doesn't have to be thrown out because they had some similarities to others. So maybe you just ignore the circumstance they were under, but they still had very similar desires and outcomes
Lilliana Robinson: that they were trying to get towards.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's up to you guys. It's there are a lot of different options you can go through, and we're here to help. So you can box us with questions like that. I love talking about this kind of clustering and synthesis.
Lilliana Robinson: or you had a question.
Uğur Koç | dert: Well, I was thinking about, you know, if we have these 3 distinct criterias, should we be? I I mean, I might be overshooting the amount of things that we have to do here. But like should we? Then, after seeing these 3 different motivations of you know, going for the product, should we try developing a product that satisfied all of these
Uğur Koç | dert: different motivations? Or should we tunnel down on one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're muted, Julia.
Lilliana Robinson: I got you? That is a great question. I love that question, or so the question is like, you have these 3. What what do you do next? Like? What are they? Where? Which do you go after, or do you go after all 3? And our answer is, you pick one, and you pick the one that has the most energy.
Lilliana Robinson: or I actually have 3 ways to pick the most energy.
Lilliana Robinson: the most feasible. So if you could quickly tailor to an audience, so that you could move to the next so low hanging fruit, or the one that your team is the most passionate about solving.
Lilliana Robinson: So those are the 3 that I usually say so. Feasibility, energy, so like it's going to make you a ton of money. You know that this is like a burning problem. Or you guys are the most passionate about solving. Maybe it's because you personally feel this segment. That's what's going to propel you to keep going even when it's hard. So those are the 3 ways. And I would say you pick one.
Lilliana Robinson: and then when you do that, you would go back to the next one and go back to the next one, or you decide that you're going to excise one and like you're not going to cover that one ever. But you only do one at a time.
Lilliana Robinson: and that's how you would prioritize it.
Lilliana Robinson: Great question. So now that we have our clusters, you guys are going to get to this point, too. So you're going to have a job statement for 2 to 4 clusters. What's gonna happen next? Well, you're going to back it up with evidence.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's the process. 1st of all, like, I said, you're gonna do implications and prototyping afterwards. So that's like you take these like we was just asking about. And you make changes to your product, your marketing. As a result, what you're gonna do for us to present is you're gonna back it up with evidence. So you have each of those clusters. And for each cluster you're gonna present the 4 forces summary, very, very brief summary, I would just say, like a highlight
Lilliana Robinson: of like a major force for each of those a highlight of a major motivation for each of the functional, emotional and social.
Lilliana Robinson: a highlight of the competitors or existing alternatives for that specific cluster. So what is this group currently doing to solve the struggle
Lilliana Robinson: before they make the switch. What were they? Were alternatives, they considered, or like pit the solution against, etc. So Annie, they all probably did buy the same thing. But what were they
Lilliana Robinson: considering or using before?
Lilliana Robinson: And if you were doing a firing interview, what are they? What are they switching toward, because they all fired the same thing. But what did they adopt afterward.
Lilliana Robinson: and then quotes, quotes are so important because you need to back it up and ground it in what the customers actually said. So pick 2 to 3, like little snippets of a quote for each cluster to illustrate the point that you're making about the cluster. And then finally, I'd love for you guys to let us know which cluster you're going after. 1st it'll be the 1st question Neil. And I ask you.
Lilliana Robinson: and I want you guys to tell us, okay, we're going after Cluster 2, because it's either the most feasible. We're the most passionate about it, or it's where the most energy lies. And here are some things we're already thinking about. You don't have to have it fully thought out. But, like, what are you starting to think about for ways you want to go after that cluster and and market toward it, and change your product toward it and use these insights for that. So that's what we're looking for. And that's really the whole thing.
Lilliana Robinson: So I'll end here.
Lilliana Robinson: and we'll just take questions. I think we ended quite early. Oh, yeah, we have 30 min.
Kevin Su: Yeah, quick question. I think just on
Kevin Su: from the beginning of the process to what you just presented right now. So you have your screening criteria. And once you actually define that, you agree that this is a screen share you want to go with
Kevin Su: do interviews. And then from those interviews you identify different clusters from your screening criteria, and then you narrow
Kevin Su: zoom in on the one cluster that you specifically want to focus on is that kind of a good summary of
Kevin Su: processing.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And when you say zoom in on one cluster, we mean not for more interviews. We mean for implications. Yeah.
Kevin Su: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Change your product.
Kevin Su: Building, marketing, business. Side, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Exactly.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep, that's exactly right. You just gave a nice little 5 second summary of the last 90 min. That was perfect.
George Reed - Noetic: Sorry I was gonna ask you as well. The the comment I made in the chat there. So
George Reed - Noetic: highlighting those other verticals that you've identified jobs to be done potentially as like future avenues for growth. Could that be like a really positive sign to investors to say, like, we have a roadmap, and we've we have validated that this is the next. These could be the next expansion opportunities.
Lilliana Robinson: I love that. Yeah. And you can even say, like, we've interviewed these other areas. And we know their struggles. And you know, we're gonna go toward that, or we've captured this cluster successfully with the new fundraising round. This is what we hope to cover right? Like you even know exactly what you're gonna do with the money, which is exactly what we want for you guys, not just raising to raise. But you would have like a a clear goal
Lilliana Robinson: for success. Once you get more resources.
George Reed - Noetic: Like, Annie said with the beachhead a while ago she mentioned that I'd never heard that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The the overused word that you'll hear myself and other Vcs use all the time is oh, it's a wedge!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll say it's a wedge wedge wedge wedge.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So look out for that.
Annie Brown: And I guess, too, when we're thinking about
Annie Brown: like the type of customers
Annie Brown: we're going after like.
Annie Brown: And I keep going back to the screening criteria because it like it clearly determines, like what these answers are.
Annie Brown: like. Does it matter like, I guess, like, let's say you, you interview folks that hired a data annotation solution. But they were from different sizes. So there were ones that were just completed their series. A. There were ones that were like
Annie Brown: mid level, and ones that were really big companies. Kind of going to George's question like, should you go after the ones? Should you interview the folks that
Annie Brown: you think you'll land
Annie Brown: quicker, or should you interview the full spectrum of like, even like, you know? Let's say I was able to get an interview with somebody at Reddit, even if maybe we're not quite ready for Reddit. Are those insights still like helpful for us now.
Lilliana Robinson: I would say those different sizes of companies should all fall into different screening criteria. That's, I think, way too different. The best b 2 b screening criteria specifies the size of company you're going after because their situations are going to be so vastly different. So when you were asking about which to go after. I think I said this to Monica during her checkpoint.
Lilliana Robinson: It depends what you want to learn. So if you want to learn like expansionary. You want to know about the enterprise, and, like you don't need to spend this time learning about maybe more low hanging fruit with like startups or medium sized companies.
Annie Brown: And then.
Lilliana Robinson: That
Lilliana Robinson: if you want your like, what is your learning objective? Do you want to learn about?
Lilliana Robinson: You're like the smaller companies.
Lilliana Robinson: whatever it is, you don't have to decide right now, Annie, but I would say, like, you're not going to get very valuable insights putting the all of those people together. The different sizes of companies and different stages need to be completely separated. For b 2 b. Those would be like a different round. You would do down the line.
Annie Brown: Okay? So like, if our if what we want to learn is like.
Annie Brown: yeah, like who basically, who is ready to like
Annie Brown: sign a contract with us today. Then that would be going for the more low hanging fruit, and you would just want to do a jobs to be done
Annie Brown: with them.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And it shouldn't just be like, who's gonna buy from me? It's like, why are these smaller companies making X purchase the purchase that you just said, and I didn't hear a lot
Lilliana Robinson: from that screening that you just said about their situation. So not only did they make that purchase, and they're that size. You need to figure out what situation they need to be in, because it's not just everyone who's that size who made that purchase. There's something else. So.
Annie Brown: Right.
Lilliana Robinson: We? I want you to think more about that. Because it's really key that they were in a similar situation. So think about that for your screening criteria. But that goes for all B twob, in the room like you should be targeting the same stage and size, or else you're gonna have vastly different results. And you're not gonna be able to draw as many patterns.
Lilliana Robinson: Felice, you had a question.
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: Yeah, I kind of
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: figures it out, maybe. But I still want to like, ask you.
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: so I'm thinking, like, in our case, like, since we're like gamers. And like, we know
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: of the like problems, like, if there's a specific problem that doesn't appear in our cluster in the end.
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: should we maybe just continue or like, just focus on the jobs we've done? Information that comes from us
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: comes to us.
Lilliana Robinson: Help me understand? You're saying, if there's 1 interview that doesn't fit into any of the clusters.
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: Not one just like in general. It's
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: I'm thinking, like we have something in our mind, and if that doesn't appear in
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: any of the like interviews, or like it doesn't have a
Filiz Yönyüksel | CogniScope: many. It's not enough information to get in a cluster from a cluster. Should we maybe go on, or just go with the information we get from Jeff Sweden and say that, okay, that's not a problem. That's.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So basically, Feliz is asking if you had a prior assumption and jobs to be done is not confirming that assumption. Do you have to throw out that assumption, and I would say
Lilliana Robinson: it sounds like your assumption was not validated. You can table it and be like, maybe like this set didn't prove that. But that hypothesis could be proven later. But if you had an assumption and your learning objective, Felice was to set out to learn whether that's true or not. And it's coming back with the job stuff saying like, that's not what the customers are saying. You're gonna have to let it go because we want truth here, and that sounds like the assumption was not validated meaning, it was proven to be false.
Lilliana Robinson: So great question, and it requires a lot of humility, because a lot of you are coming in here, having, like we talked about in the assumptions workshop, having spent lots of money and time and effort, and your own hours of losing sleep, building something for assumptions that might not have been validated, and you might realize in the next few weeks that it was actually a false assumption. That's okay. It's okay to just let it go. Because you guys are here now, and you're here to like transform, like beautiful butterflies. And you're just going to become something completely different.
Lilliana Robinson: So what Feliz is asking will probably happen to a lot of you. You just have to have a lot of humility.
Lilliana Robinson: Any other questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you all feel like you're going to be able to finish your round of jobs we done, and then do this with your team. We won't have another session on this. So the next time we talk about this we'll either be via voxer for one off questions, or when you're presenting in week 6
Lilliana Robinson: cool? Well, I'll end it here. I'm not going to keep everybody for longer, but I'll stick around for a bonus round. If people have specific questions, this was great. You guys have been enjoyed to have this series with, because you guys ask such great questions. I can't wait to see what you come up with and what comes out of it, and I'm really excited for month 2, where we can take the insights and work on your businesses and and see the gears start turning and the success start happening. Cause that's where the magic happens. It's very fun, I know. That's also Neil's favorite part. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now been thoroughly trained.
Lilliana Robinson: What do you call it? From Star Wars? It's like everyone can use the force. Now.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Well, I'll let you guys go. We will talk to you this afternoon for your presentations.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright, bye, everybody.